Hi and welcome back.
In this video we're going to look at
how to return some more information
by adding another endpoint
and making it give us something back.
In this section we're going to be building
a post application, like a blogging app, but simpler.
It's just going to store posts that we write
and we're going to be able to access different posts
by using endpoints.
The first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to create some test data,
just because we've gotta start
by being able to read posts
and then we're going to look at writing posts afterwards.
In order to be able to read a post,
of course we need some posts
in order to be able to read them
and the way I'm gonna do this
is I'm going to do something like this.
Just typing it out.
What you've got here is posts variable is a global variable
and it is a dictionary,
a dictionary which maps 0 to content.
This 0 here
is the post ID.
That's a unique identifier for each post.
Because we only have one post,
that's gonna start at 0,
but then it's gonna go up to one and then two and so forth
as we add more posts.
In this video though we're only going to be able to read
this post.
In order to do that
we are going to create another endpoint
and at this endpoint we're going to do
app.route, int:post_id there.
What this is doing now is this is going to
define another route and it's going to associate it
with this function here.
But as you can see,
there's a bit of strange bit of syntax here.
These crocodile clips, this ends the colon and post_id,
what this is going to do is this will be replaced
by an integer, a number, which is the post ID.
For example, when a user sends a request
and they try to access
/post/0,
this 0 will replace this entire thing.
This is some Flask unique syntax
which will allow the 0 to replace this entire thing
and then post ID will be passed to our function,
as post_id
under that parameter there.
Now we'll have access to post_id inside the function
in order to retrieve it from our dictionary.
If we wanted to retrieve this post from the dictionary,
all we have to do is posts.get(post_id).
We've seen this sort of syntax before.
All it does is it tries to get,
from the dictionary, something with this key
and if it fails it would return none.
So all we're doing is getting, for example,
post ID 0 from this dictionary,
which is going to give us these other dictionary
and that is going to go into post.
Then we can return a more complex string,
like for example, post title,
content is gonna be post content.
Something like this.
Nothing terribly complicated.
All that's happening here is we're
retrieving the post from our dictionary
and then we're returning a string
that contains the title and the content,
just so somebody that requests it
can read the post.
Once again, you should get accustomed to doing this
when you're developing larger applications,
as we're gonna be doing in this section.
Make sure to press play and test it out.
All we have to do is go over back to Chrome,
run the application.
As you can see nothing changes with hello world,
but now we can access
post 0.
And there you have some extra content.
Post Hello, world
and the content is This is my first blog post.
What we've learned now
is how to use this in memory database,
this dictionary here
that's acting as an in memory database,
and return some content through a browser
to a user.
You can see how if we put this out there in a server
that a lot of people could access, they could all now access
this address
by using their computers, all over the internet.
Of course returning this simple string
and also just having a single post inside our code
is not terribly useful.
If we added a database though
and we had the ability to create new posts,
suddenly this becomes a lot more useful.
That's it for this video.
I just wanted to show you how
to return existing information.
We're going to look at how we can style this
a little bit better
by using HTML, in the next video.
See you there.